---
layout: post
title:      "Switching Languages"
date:       2018-09-03 14:59:35 +0000
permalink:  switching_languages
---


A couple of weeks ago I moved on to the JavaScript portion of the curriculum and the change of gears has brought about some interesting realizations. First, it has become abundantly clear why Ruby was chosen as the language to cut our teeth on. Readability alone makes it an excellent bridge between thinking like a person and thinking like a computer. Factor in the massive library of native functionality that JavaScript lacks and its a no brainer. The irony is that before I started at Flatiron I was working on a class that used C, and when I started the JavaScript portion of the bootcamp prep course I thought JavaScript was like a gift from the programming gods. Once you get past the difference in syntax though, I'm beginning to believe that there aren't a whole lot of differences from one language to another. 

The argument can be made that the difference between one coding language and the next runs a paralell to the differences between spoken languages: they have the same purpose, the way they get there is just a little different. With coding languages I would argue that the differences are even smaller than spoken languages, at least in my limited experience. These similarities can make it easy to transition from one language to another but can also lead to some hefty headaches. The devil is in the details. My biggest hurdle in switching from Ruby to JavaScript has been the return statement, or rather my inability to remember that it needs to be used. In Ruby a method always returns value of the final line in the method. This concept is something that has become ingrained in my thought process and very much taken for granted. JavaScript on the other hand, requires and explicit return statement if you want the function to give you anything back. This has caused me quite a few headaches before I got my brain to rewire itself a bit and remember that a function need to be told what I want it to give me. It's funny how something so small and simple can throw a wrench in the works. I don't think switching from one language to another is really that big of a challenge. The concepts are all the same and syntax is fairly similar. The biggest speed bump is probably the little bits, the things that you do out of habit and may not even recognize as a potential problem.
